oh yeah i mean that's that's easy that's an easy
question i um was in college i had a boyfriend
who was ahead of the game and he actually sold
computers it's in the early 80s so he was ahead
i had he was a geek like most of the people i
like and um he introduced me we would stay up
late playing tax adventure games so the first
one i played actually was a scott adams game
i think this one i played first got adam's game
about being in the west i can't remember the
name of it but it was a western cowboy game and i
graduated from those two infocomm games actually
before i worked at infocom so well how you no mine
was more um kismet which was i broke up with that
boyfriend and he was moving to some other place
and in kind of a so there kind of thing i said
well i'm going to move to massachusetts
and yeah i'm going to work for infocom
completely out of the blue it was it was a just
trying to get his goat and it sounded like fun
you know i happened to be my i had a sister in
massachusetts so i could go mooch off her and
look you know infocom's there um and
i got to massachusetts on a thursday
i looked in the newspaper and the want ads that
weekend had a job for two testers at infocom one
for cornerstone stone and one for the games and
um i applied for them and was interviewed a week
later and got the job two weeks after that and
it was i just walked into it i didn't have to
try hard at all right the um now one of the
things that's always hard to you you would have
been going into was it wheeler or cambridge park i
moved i moved i started at wheeler and they moved
in my first month or two so so i got to see both
sort of the end of the old and the beginning of
the new and i was new enough and arrived at
a time when everything was expanding and the
excitement was all about cornerstone and how
we're going to be business we're going to be
buttoned down we're going to be real none of
these game things and i i got caught up in
that even though i was hired on the game side um
and so i was all for the move and the cool new
building with the glass and the atriums and and
um it was um i suppose it was an interesting um
not a loss of innocence so much but to see if i
look back at myself of learning what the mistakes
were being made even as that happened i was
able to sort of experience them myself with
with getting caught up in the excitement of of
the new idea and then seeing how that was really
a bad idea for infocomm and then of course i ended
up as an imp so i i moved much further into the
other side of things now it's always been kind
of fuzzy how exactly one went from being i mean
i have a very first person narrative view of the
whole experience you know i can't tell you what
it was like in a third-person world this was the
first job i'd had out of college so i didn't know
at the time that it was different from anywhere
else i mean i knew it was different but i
didn't know how different um i haven't continued
working in the games industry so i don't know how
different it was from how games are done now you
know so that's all i can say from my experience i
was part of the testers and we were part of the
imps and um i don't know what it was like to be
in marketing really in in a different
part of the same company i i can't really
talk to that experience so yes a call would go
out we're going to get an imp but i don't know if
that was really only you know four of us knew that
the call had gone out or if the whole company knew
that that's sort of my my thing about not being
omniscient i don't really know what was happening
to the for the other people and i have learned
later that apparently there was this sense of
we were the very cliquish in group the imps the
cliquish of the clicks and the testers were on
the outer margins of that and you know moving
out in groups but it didn't it didn't feel that
way so much to to us so from my experience um we
had so much to to us so from my experience we had
gone through the layoffs the cornerstone disaster
the purchase of of infocom by activision and um
steve came to me was one of his testers and he
came to me some saturday morning and said you
know amia you i think i had told him it would be
a goal someday to be an ampersand sort of in the
blue sky and he said you know uh we're going
to be hiring an imp someday and someday soon
and after this hiring because of all the cup
cutbacks and all there's not going to be another
empire until one of us dies so if you're going to
go for it you have to go for it now so i kind of
said oh well what do i do he said well you should
write a game so i read a game and applied and i
think there were other people applying too but
then i got it so the the other side of this is
the testing and the m2 but then i got it so the
the other side of this is the testing and the imps
worked very closely together so i mean it was
a perfect springboard to become an imp because
you you knew the games and you were able to see
how they were being created you know it wasn't
i suppose when you get a game completely done
it's hard to imagine all of the steps that went
into creating it but when you're a tester and
you've been there from from the alpha testing
very early stuff where nothing works and there's
not a full story there and there's not a full
experience you have a much better sense while
steaming out still being outside of it of of
what it's like to create it so it's it's a logical
next step to try to do it yourself and um steve
helped me he he was the one who said you know
here's how to do the interpreter he's had a um
oh i'm blanking on the words you know um
compile your pro you know compile your game
just the steps to the computer side i had had some
programming experience so that wasn't completely
out of my experience but um i didn't know how to
do it for zil so he was able to to show me to he
didn't he did not leave me by the hand but he did
sort of lay out what was needed in front of me so
the other side of it was lay out what was needed
in front of me so the other side of it was um
again from my experience from within the
whole company we were all very young i was
younger than the average but i was like 22 23.
but but and the the guys somebody can tell you
what the average age there's a t-shirt that
was given to the first person who would age
the oldest person the company you know so it was
a young company we all most of us were single we
would just live there it was it was our our
home and our family as well as our workplace
so for me to write a game i would just work
i get into work to test you know at 9 9 30 10
i'd work till 6 30 or 7 and then i'd work on
the game for two or three hours go out to dinner
with somebody you know else who was working
late come back the company was open and there
all the time and then i worked all weekends when
i was sort of actively in the mindset of i'm going
to be coming in i have to do this i was getting up
at six in the morning and coming in saturdays and
sundays too to write my game on the weekends when
i wasn't working but it wasn't hard it was just
part of the the whole culture of the company i was
not alone in this is what i mean to say you'd see
other people there at the company not writing
their own games necessarily but they're to play
games on the computers that we had available or to
just hang out everything so um i guess in that way
it was probably different
from other places i've worked
so um hollywood mentioned to me any specifics i
had written a really off-the-wall bizarre little
game that came from who knows where about being a
tester in a sort of alice in wonderland alternate
dimension and taking your your bugs which are
real metamorphosized bugs to the imp who is like a
caterpillar at a hookah you know it was it was
very bizarre and didn't and it esca got around
all of the um real world things of like rope so
that my test game that i had done to prove i could
do it didn't have any warning signals um i mean
i i would i mean i i would talk with all the guys
about i mean it was it was sort of an open
atmosphere for some of us it was up to the
individual imp how much you wanted to share with
the others but i would ask about puzzle problems
and and things but i don't remember any any uh
advice on that level i know that that steve did
help me decide what to after it's hired what what
should my first game be and i talked with it with
him about it fairly often um and i do remember him
saying he would not have done planted hearts first
i mean before i started he said this is not what
i do for my first game because it sounds too hard
and i didn't take his advice on that
but um so so obviously there was um
there was mentoring and discussion going
on but i don't remember specifics like that
i know that um moriarty you uh no i i was
um boy i i kind of left i left the company
um i was probably a year after plenty of hearts
came out and i had worked on some other projects
we had troubles finding a project that marketing
and administration i'll call them wanted me to
work on um and i was very frustrated at the time
and we don't have to go into that or we can that's
up to you but um um i was definitely i
could have stayed and done other things
management i shouldn't say administration
management and marketing and i could not
agree on what to do next and so management
i shouldn't say administration management
and marketing and i could not agree on what to do
next and some of that was the um terrified nature
of the company at that point the the downside um
i'm just thinking of of your talking about um the
other imps talking about how wonderful it was and
it it really was i mean i i can say for me it was
a sad truth that it was the best job i've ever had
and a job i don't think i could ever get again it
was a really not a job it was a an amazing
creative experience with an amazing creative
group and i do think it was something very
special and unusual um but i can i was also there
sort of i came in at the end of the good stuff
and i can even even say i came in at the end
of the good stuff and i know how good it was and i
was there for most of the trajectory into into the
dissolution of the company and uh that was hard
that was hard to go through so anyway i could
have i could have written um more games but we
couldn't come to an agreement about what and so i
i left for some personal reasons and for some of
that reason do you remember what um um well i they
wanted me they tasked me to come up with um a game
that would have marketing tie-ins and my personal
interests um were geekish and not necessarily um
going to make huge marketing tie-ins in retrospect
i think they some of them would have worked i had
an idea for a vampire game that was roughly based
on the anne rice books which is before the movie
had come out so it hadn't hit the mainstream yet
so that's one that i think was a mistake not to
have let me follow up on i had an idea for an
another series of books based on our game based
on a series of books about a swashbuckler in the
16th century that probably wouldn't have gone over
big but it would have been another swashbuckler
um not a romance but a more historical that one
i was a little less interested in because i'd
sort of been there done that with pointed
hearts something similar um i had an idea
for a doctor who game but this was right at the
end of the you know doctor who was falling into
uh not disrepair but tom baker had stopped showing
on the on the american screens and the the new
doctors weren't as exciting and and he was never
that huge here anyway and i don't know that that
would have been so so big either and i i should
say it i don't know that it was all management
saying no no you can't do that it was some
combination of me not pushing and and them not
pushing me you know it was it was a two-way street
okay or anything else like that that was i i will
take the credit and the blame i think that was
all my idea i mean i think they were fine with
me going forward with it and it wasn't that there
hadn't been women writing text adventures before
even in our company though they
hadn't been you know the main
imp but i think it was a good selling point
of oh look and there was this movement at
that time it's before brenda laurel and
before um i think it's purple moon which
has gone out of business now but the the games
for girls the games that they were coming out
for girls at that time were like cooking
games oh let's have a sewing game and which
is just benighted it just the the concept
that and they weren't fun to play either um so
no wonder girls weren't interested in playing
them and i'm not actually going to claim that
plundered hearts is a game that girls would be
that interested in playing because i think the
mode of play is something that developmentally
teenage girls aren't that interested in
doing sitting down with a computer by yourself i
think brenda laurel and some other companies have
done good ways of getting games that girls will
be interested in playing but we didn't know that
then and i was interested in in writing romance
i thought a romance might be kind of fun and
different and it had this you know this gimmick
of a woman writing for women so there were at
the time there were some uh critical reviews that
just hated it because of its over feminists and
i remember one reviewer just lit into the game
because she was trying to karate chop and to do
tough guy stuff and the game wouldn't let her
and so she was criticizing it for not allowing
uh the character to be strong and we can go into a
whole sort of philosophical approach about what a
character should be in one of these games but
but it was it was an interesting experiment
but you know it's funny which is earlier i wanted
to say when when asking about steve giving advice
he may not have needed to give advice because
i had read him in a at the time i was working
there i read his an interview with him i think
it was may have been for games magazine that
that struck me at the time and and i
still obviously remember it today which is
he said um there's this fine line with
with reality and what's setting up how
um the games out of the rooms are described he
said if you if you say um you walk into an office
there's a desk there the player is going to expect
the whole world of things that are on a typical
desk a stapler a phone you know a pencil cup who
knows what they're going to expect and you don't
want to waste your time as a as an implementer
coding in every single possible thing that could
possibly be on a desktop when what you really
only care about is you know the the magic pen
that's in the pencil cup um whereas if you say you
walk into a wizard's uh lab or a wizard's cave who
knows what's in a wizard's cave so you can get
away with a lot by setting it in this fantasy
environment that people don't have
predetermined expectations about what
should be in that environment um and and so i
think that's some of what you're talking about
of at the level of the tester's job was not just
to find bugs the rather dull qa of where does
the computer crash it's where does the world
that you've invented break down and what is
a reasonable um approximation of things that are
on the desk let's say that people will look for
um without having to burden the code with
everything possible and you could argue that
in plundered hearts i didn't i didn't broaden
it enough i didn't get enough of those because
people were complaining you can't karate chop or
or things certainly i know i'm still embarrassed
to this day in the final released version
there's a bug that happens in the first couple
moves when you do something very logical i can't
remember what it is right now but it then that's
a it's a true bug you get garbage if you type
out something like take the box there's a box
uh under the bed that slides out and if you take
the box rather than grab the box or something
that's a logical thing to do you get garbage
from it so that was a case where the testers
had missed or i missed in in my own i should
take responsibility um a very obvious thing
to have done at the beginning so i don't
know if that answers your question but
some of my questions are stories designed
to help you remember where boy i used
a parser that was already done and i had to strip
it way down i don't know if probably nobody's told
you my story which was they they gave me because
it was my first game they gave me nine months to
write it and i finished it in six um and then
spent the next three i'm just cutting stuff out
it was way way too big to fit because i was the
last game to fit on i think it was commodore 64.
so it was all that great stuff that had to be cut
and so i did a lot of cutting but i started with
a black box parser and i don't think i started
with any other game i mean i could be because it
was it was a different it was coming at things
differently if i did it would have been prison
because it was in my mind it was the most like a
mind forever voyaging sorry which we called prison
in development um but i'm pretty sure i didn't
because that was so huge that i would i would
have spent my first six months just cutting stuff
out of that to make it small enough to build on
some of the games are okay i've been assigned the
romance game no no it was very very cl i think
they would have been happier for me not to have
done romance game first it's not like i railroaded
them into it but um i think there was there was
definitely hey let's do something for women you
know so we can do the whole women writing for
women we can get that whole new market because
it was definitely at the time the whole time
i was essentially after my first uh six months
at infocomm it was all the beginning of the end
and so there was a panic underlying everything of
where is the next hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy
and that's uh that would be my anger is after
plundered hearts he said well that's good you know
you didn't sell very many deer it wasn't quite
that condescending but it was almost was just go
out and just write us another game that will sell
150 000 copies which none of the other games had
done except for hitchhikers which was like 400 000
copies you know so it was this impossible task
that was laid on and oh we don't want to burden
you with with telling you what to do just you just
write us a hit and it was very frustrating for me
because i had perhaps been off more than i could
chew with my first game in trying a different
genre and a different play a type of play for
an entirely new um market that then you know
again this is something i don't know a lot
about because i was kind of the innocent newbie
throughout the whole experience but from what
i was told at the time sales didn't know what
to do with activision sales didn't know what to
do with the infocomm game so sold to a slightly
different market a different kind of player
it's a very different kind of play at the time
um you know sitting down for 150 hours with the
game was not the same as pong you know so um
it was i could i could blame the lack of sales
on things far beyond my ability to to control um
but it also probably was um being marketed to the
wrong group and the people who would be interested
weren't interested in playing computer games so
marketing was not unaware of that to to bring it
back to the question which is no they did not say
here sit down you have to write a game a romance
so i think they played on that after the fact to
have something to talk about you know about the
game but i don't even remember what else i had
in mind for the first game i had in high school
uh thought i would write romance novels when i
was gonna be a grown-up so so writing a romance
seemed to be a logical thing to do and something
different but no it did not come from outside um
if i can say actually i would in retrospect uh
when i saw pirates of the caribbean the first
movie i thought that's what i was trying to do
that movie is what i was trying to get my game to
play like that whole experience and um wishbringer
was the other game that i i loved the the double
layer of wishbringer of able to play it
without magic and with magic and in the end
i didn't have any magic in the romance but that's
sort of i should say what i was trying to do with
plundered hearts was have a way you could play
it just as an adventure and then away as you
could play it as a as a romance steve did it more
successfully in leather goddesses phobos i'd say
with your tongue-in-cheek romance for kind of sexy
stuff you could do the joke of you could play it
as a straightforward game or you could play
for all the sex jokes so anyway that's all um
i think we might have a door or seeing
it used somewhere or anything like that
well um not immediately the the
initial response was disappointment
i don't take that personally i think every
game that didn't sell 150 000 at that point
was met with internally disappointment not
not in the imps but marketing and management
were like oh no we didn't we didn't get it that
time um go make us a hit come on do it next time
um but what was it and and given that given
that it sold a paltry 30 000 at the time that
the average game was selling 60 000 i think
um it was a surprise when 10 years later
i'm in graduate school in minnesota and somebody a
high school or a college kid knocks on my door and
says are you the amy briggs i played plundered
hearts in fifth grade it was my sister's game
but i played it with her i always make clear that
the guys were only playing it because it was their
sister's game and that was a great experience for
me i just want to thank you that was a surprise
to have this undercoming and not not so much i
mean i kind of expect something from being part
of infocom um but to have apparently they're
people who really think my game is really good
and that and and it it i wouldn't say it changed
their lives but it made a difference in their
lives and they remembered it not as oh it's the
failed game of that year which is sort of how
i felt about it at the time of a failed
experiment um so that was kind of a surprise
i guess if they wanted the success of hitchhiker's
guide they would have as you tried to work
together in a medium that's why the vampire
thing surprised me that they didn't i think
it was um a combination of maybe me not
pushing hard enough she was not as famous
as she is now i mean she'd only written i think
two of the books at that point maybe three um
and that wasn't big enough um i did give pressure
i had worked um on prairie home companion and i as
a an usher for years and new garrison i have had
had potlucks in garrison keeler's kitchen you know
i won't say we were close personal friends but
you know there was pressure hey see if you can get
garrison keeler and that was surprises me actually
in retrospect because he's much much bigger now
than he was in the 80s but he at least was a name
anne rice was still kind of this kind of culti
vampire person so so i don't know why that idea
didn't take off more now i was assigned to the
long list of people writing um the douglas adams
restaurant at the end of the universe that was
i don't know if that was the fir i think that
came up when i didn't have a good uh game of
my own they said here you will write the next big
hit because it will be the next douglas adams game
and it wasn't um it was after bureaucracy
and it wasn't um or maybe it was the same
times bureaucracy but anyways a sequel to
hitchhikers and a lot of imps careers died in that
in that game at the time i came on um douglas
was completely unattached to the to the project
he just didn't want to hammer it through i never
met him personally i stood in the room with him
once when i right after i was hired like the day
after i started he came through and was introduced
to another tester but i wasn't on his game at that
point so i didn't get to meet him but um so he was
not attached to the process the project and then
it was handed off to other people and in the end i
was told seriously that i was going to be writing
the game with a programmer at um i think it was
at magnetic scrolls a competitor's company was
going to tell me how to write the game and then i
was just going to be the old-fashioned meaning of
the word implementing i was just going to be doing
coding for it and i at that point i said no
this is absurd so i i quit on that project so
you quit the project you put the company on that
project um it was all at the same time you know
it wasn't it wasn't so it was like a standard
breakdown that was a stan yeah that was just
the house isn't clean they didn't take care of the
dogs doing bad at work you know what i'm getting
my back yeah i mean i can't remember the exact
timing actually but but it was it was in the same
period so i do have historical stuff about for
instance bureaucracy um and i mean it's it is
so that's fine i think it was panic i think
it was panic and i think what made infocom so
great when it was great was exactly what killed
us the um as i understand it what happened was
um they formed the company to be a button-down
three-piece suit with vest and tie business
company but look we've got these games we'll make
money off the games and then we'll use that for
the real stuff and they ignored the games which
is exactly what you need for creative format for
for good stuff to happen they ignored the games
they threw a little bit of money at us not near
as much as they should have done if we wanted to
stay alive in the games world because that wasn't
the point then they funneled off all that money
and put it into the the grown-up stuff and that
allowed the games people to do what they did best
they they just sort of they were ignored and um
pleasantly neglected which allowed this group of
really brilliant people excluding myself from that
just come together and create really wonderful
things and a great environment i mean it was
just a really wonderful environment and then when
cornerstone died and the end started happening
suddenly there was this need to make themselves
a totally understandably human nature oh my gosh
we have to now survive on what we were doing
before and make all of our hopes and dreams about
the grown-up business side now we've got to apply
to the game side and applying a micromanagement
finger to to that side which
is exactly what killed it
so i mean it's kind of through the neglect that
it became was allowed to become great and then
through trying to um capitalize on that greatness
that it killed it i think killed the the call i
don't know that the games are bad i would just
the the late games i would just say that they're
uh they're trying too hard it's it's too much not
let leveling go off and come up with another great
game on his own because he's done it before trust
us you know he'll do this again it's we have to
make sure that it's going to be a win before he
gets out of the gate which you just can't do so um
from the games industry was rather young um yeah
i didn't plan on it it just kind of happened i
could have sort of kept thinking i'll go back
there someday and then i realized it had moved
on without me yeah i didn't i retired in 20 when
i was 26 and i was like why to write yes i keep
doing that i've done that periodically in my life
i'm going to write the great american novel and um
uh actually that was a mistake i was going to
just write a novel and they had this huge party
for me when i left infocomm and they gave
me a t-shirt which i still have which was
the 1989 winner of the pulitzer prize which
suddenly put these expectations on it that um kind
of killed that in the bud so oh did you actually
take that actually stunt your interest in it or
i'm still interested in it and i'm still kind of
trying to do it but i've never written that novel
no i keep finding other things to do so i wonder
if i really do want to write the novel if i just
want to keep dreaming about writing the novel well
that's something to be said for that um so let's
see what i'm going to do yep so because by that
point wheeler's probably already starting to be in
wheeler when i first saw it was already in boxes
yeah it was a dark little place full of boxes so
um i'll start talking about the imp life but
i could also probably talk about the testers
the the building is still around today i think
and i think it's six stories tall and we were on
the fifth floor and it was um what is now i'm
sure very dated all glass on the outside with
quite beautiful glass atriums from from bottom
to top in the middle and it was all very
buttoned down so you'd arrive i'd arrive whenever
i felt like getting up and i was i was um
living in oh gosh i lived all over boston at
that time but i was living on the tea so it
was an easy tea trip out and then just a walk of
three blocks over to cambridge park and you go
up the elevator and you're surrounded by you know
button-down places you walk in we've got a formal
reception area and everything's kind of light
and um i should say uh colorless not not light
in a good way it's all colorless and there's gray
carpet and there's white walls and there's no uh
the thing wheeler had going for it is it even
though when i knew it it was dark in in boxes
there was a sense of actual artisanship there i
i don't actually know if it was just a rundown
place but that was the feeling of it there
was no artisan ship at cambridge park and um
it was we were we took up like half the floor
around one atrium and it was all divided up
with the because when we moved in we were going to
take over the whole floor and i have some memory
that maybe we even did rent the whole floor for a
while and then they in the cutbacks they got rid
of some of the space but it was largely empty so
we had a you'd walk into reception with marketing
and then beyond that into you you go geez you can
go to the right and go to the imps go to the left
and you get to the testing area and go further to
the left and around the building you'd be where
the they developed the parser and tim anderson
and the the the guys who i considered the um the
real programmers work i misspoke not the parser
the interpreters were written over there and then
administration the big guys were down the
hall by themselves in a corner and the the
imps area has probably been described we we had
what we call the bowling alley it was a very
large open room with windows at the end and was
on the corner of the building so all of the imps
on the north side had windows in their offices
with john palace on the corner and then a big
series of windows for the bowling alley and
then a line of offices on the south side with
steve moritzki had the south side windowed office
and then the rest of us had the closed-in offices
on the south side and we did talk about the north
side kids and the southside kids and the north
side were the real programmers and the south side
were the just the dabblers who had the creative
ability and were struggling with the programming
that that was the myth because of course steve
was on the south side but he wasn't considered
one of the real programmers and he didn't have a
computer science degree but um he definitely in
that deserved to be on the north side i think
he kind of enjoyed being on the south side so
the south side was me jeff o'neal and hollywood
who actually was not on the south side it was on
the east side but it was also a windowless office
um i think the intent had been to um when we
got up and running and were famous assuming they
even were going to have games that there would be
cubicles in the center of that big area and then
we'd have games just routing out our ears from all
the people working all at once so um you'd show up
when you'd ch you'd show up when you'd show up
i don't remember ever being rushed and i'm not a
morning person so i don't think it was an early
time um i would um the doors were always open
except in few cases when people didn't want
to be bothered but it was actually a really
wonderful way to work all of the imps we were
all working on our own projects separately but
in a shared environment and and for me it was a it
was a great it was kind of the perfect environment
because you have the team the sense of we're all
working together on something but i didn't have
to share my work with anybody else there was no
need to actually work with partners other people
work well with partners i don't but i had the the
team support without the individual butting in
you would say hi you would say hi you'd sit down
i would work on a good day i would forget the time
it passed and i kind of come into myself
six hours later realizing i'd forgotten
to have lunch we worked on old-fashioned
amber monitors plugged into a mainframe it's
kind of hard to even remember how basic
it felt very high tech at the time but
you know it's nothing like you know the cheapest
computer out today um the day would end uh around
separate time the formal day um frequently with
a a boggle party or not party but a boggle game
which gosh i wish i could get this probably
available now but for many years it was not
possible to have an intranet boggle game so we we
would all be playing it would be whoever signed up
usually imps and testers playing boggle on
the computer for half an hour or so and then
some people would go home if they had families
they would go home to the families others of us
would stay and work later um steve by the way
was by far the best boggle player and i always
thought that i was a poor player because steve
would beat the pants off me and everybody else
partly just because he's the fastest typist
i've ever known so you could think of the word
it would already be typed out for him i have since
discovered that i have not been beaten by anybody
in boggle ever since i lost or left infocom so i
guess i'm pretty good too but steve was supreme
every week one day a week
we'd have a an imps lunch
where we would get together and formally
officially share how the game was going bring
up problems ask for help tom snyder productions
would come to those other other outside groups
um above bates when he was sort of working for us
but not yet part of the group would come to those
lunches they were they were semi-formal i think
bruce what's his name the head of activision came
to one of them um and doesn't ring a bell bruce
is what we called him the lawyer the ceo yeah
yeah so who hated infocus yeah he came to one of
those lunches and that was a tense lunch um but
those were and i i i guess you know i was the
girl i was the one who ran out to get the food
john and me john and i would share that and i
still don't think that that was because i was the
girl i got paid less than anybody else but i don't
think it was because i was the girl it was because
i was the last hired in that group and i was
told before i started you know we're paying the
other guys a lot more than you but we just don't
have the money now now maybe if i had not been a
girl they wouldn't have cut that way i don't i
don't hold it against them whoever they might
be but it was the true fact that i was the one who
would get the lunches and i was the one who would
frequently got the friday party supplies too but i
also kind of like to do that so i would volunteer
um and at the i like to do that so i would
volunteer um and at the ims lunches it was um
you know it was a supportive atmosphere i don't
recall i mean i know there must have been fights
um between imps and i know that there were
fights between imps but i don't recall
anything at these lunches um among us except
sort of supportive geez you know i've got
a puzzle i can't figure out how to solve it it's
boring how do we solve this puzzle or how do i we
didn't do coding questions because sitting around
a lunch table is not a good place to do coding
uh problem solving so that wasn't the kind of
thing we discussed that you'd walk over to stu
stu galley is usually the person i'd check
in with depended what what you were looking
for stu was the person i go to for parser
stuff leveling for um really complex stuff
in programming um steve for real questions for
comedy you know how to make something funny
or just how to get out of a pickle in the story
um and then at the imp lunches it was all just a
free-for-all of people talking and suggesting
so that would pretty much be how how it would
work it was everybody working on their own thing
but together and it worked pretty well that way
so um and of course a couple people were
remote but that's the way those things are
um because it's it's the cover it's on the
cover the marketing interviews you the game um
the game packaging when i was it's changed
from all the wonderful unique packaging to the
the look of a matching set of books i mean it fits
in with that that was very very definitely the
perception and the perception um from within that
yeah we really were the best and and it's arrogant
i suppose but maybe it's true i don't know
we certainly have been remembered well um
so we didn't need to we were above all the
we weren't doing just games we were doing
experiences environments and they were more like
books that's how we saw them um you know so yeah
we would not have any way of knowing but
you know and you want them to know right um
i'm not sure i can say i think of infocau the
theme song in the back of my head is camelot
camelot which i can't sing right now but um
it was kind of this moment of glory and it's
not to say that it couldn't happen again
i look at the games coming out now which i
don't look at too closely i'm not big into
games um but i don't know i think some of what
made infocom so great was this um individual
vision that they were able to that the the
style of the game and the ability with a text
adventure it's you know it's it is a book
i'll i'll go strongly it is a book just done a
little differently you get an individual vision
in a different way than you do when you're having
to hire voice uh what do they call voice actors
you know mark hamill has to be in this and we've
got to have graphics and we got to have certain
algorithms for the fight scenes and things i i
just it doesn't surprise me that many of the games
the commercial games today are more and more like
sort of um absent hollywood movies it's because
it's the only way you can make something that
looks like that and um i i do think it's kind
of amazing the the underground amateur games
that there are maybe they aren't underground
to people who are there but um because
my my response is why would i want to
it's an unlearned response i want to say this
is not educated it's it's why would i want to
commit to 100 hours of playing some unknowns game
i want i want the stamp of somebody put some money
behind this you know i have to pay for this to
make it worthwhile to prove that it's good but
probably those games are as engaging as
any other book that's written today and
i would think probably for me and the kind
of interests i have more engaging than halo
so it's not quite fair to compare halo with
flooded hearts but anyway so i don't know
that i have anything to say that hasn't been said
by other people or isn't well known there's a lot
less shooting in blood regards than halo there is
though there are a lot of deaths in blended hearts
and that was there's a lot less shooting in
blended hearts than halo there is though there
are a lot of deaths in blended hearts and that was
strictly because i was trying to keep it easy on
the idea that um it was supposed to be this new
market of people who hadn't played and i didn't
have a good way of making the puzzles easier
more better hints or something so i just have you
die before and it was to make it easy you just
die so that i didn't have to get a puzzle to get
out of whatever it was and also i didn't have
the space because i was so cramped for space
it was easier to die than to have a landing
room that you know if you step off the cliff or
something apropos very specific uh point about
blended hearts i like the phrase landing room
see that's a good example of someone who
has an implementation in their background